# What This Book Is About

> Writing your own app store and licensor is a rite of passage. It's actually no fun whatsoever, but I wouldn't want to discourage you from a learning experience.  
> ---Wil Shipley

When you distribute outside the Mac App Store, you have to take care of app updates and copy protection yourself. To implement that is extra work, piled on top of all the tasks related to your app's real functionality. To figure out how to implement all that on your own takes quite some time, and I found that instructions on the internet were very sparse. With the Mac App Store, you only have to provide a working binary, upload it, pass the review, and that's it. You can focus on the features you want, no need to worry about the infrastructure.

I wrote this book to save you days of work, even if you know what you're doing. This book could save you weeks if you had to start from scratch and did all the research, testing, and implementation on your own. I know because it took me ages to get confident in the process and figure things out for my first macOS app. You'll benefit from a fully functional Open Source framework that encapsulates everything I've learned and that works. This alone saves you the time to code and test all the things yourself. Then there's the time I spent on this book, of course, which is time you don't have to spend researching.

The things you will learn from this book aren't complicated. It's just very embarrassing if things go wrong when it comes to money. Your app crashes from time to time? No problem. But if app activation doesn't work after a credit card is charged, people get angry quick. Here, you'll learn how to make things work even though the stakes are high.

I can still remember the high levels of anxiety I experienced when I started to implement the parts that make an app purchase-able. The higher the stakes, the more you may be afraid of the process. This is wasted energy, and I have no clue why nobody in the past showed how to accomplish everything you'll learn in this book.

This book wants to help you become confident in the process. You'll learn techniques that are applied out there in the wild by developers all over the world. Keep in mind that I have skin in the game, too: I sell my own apps on FastSpring and the Mac App Store, and I share with you real-world code snippets from my own applications and the resulting Open Source framework I depend on. To look beyond my own nose and to figure out common practices, I interviewed app developers and asked how they did things. You'll find their voices throughout the book. I also freelanced and set up other people's applications for license-based activation and purchases via FastSpring to improve the process. This makes me very confident in the results I present to you in this little book, and I sure hope it helps you overcome whatever obstacle you're facing, be it fear of the unknown, anxiety of failing badly, or not having the time to work things out for yourself.
