# Before You Leave ...

I'd like to quote Wil Shipley again:

> Writing your own app store and licensor is a rite of passage. It's actually no fun whatsoever, but I wouldn't want to discourage you from a learning experience.  
> ---Wil Shipley

His words ring true for me. It was awkward that there was no simple solution to the problem of selling apps on your own. Sure, I found a couple of once useful but ultimately outdated components. But doing this all from scratch was a weird ride. 

To be honest, I was stressed out a lot by the prospect of implementing my own licensing scheme. Back then, I was far less confident in my developer prowess. Or less arrogant, if you will. Shipping your first product is like slaying a dragon; it's exhilarating, but first it is very, very terrifying. I wanted to write unit tests for everything to make sure I don't screw up the most basic parts of the licensing code. That's why I didn't feel comfortable in Paddle back when their service was new, and decided to rather roll my own very simple stuff instead of relying on a black-box. Only after nothing bad happened for a while did I gain confidence in my approach. That was after I shipped my app _WordCounter_ in 2014. Then I replicated the process for another app, _Move!_, extracted reusable pieces of code, eventually transitioned to Swift, wrapped everything in a framework, and began to write about the journey and lessons learned in this book. Working things out on your own is fine, but knowing how one tried and tested solution works speeds the process up tremendously. In that regard, I think this guide is still unique, so many years after its initial release. I'm happy the guide stands the test of time, but it still puzzles me nobody shares this kind of information.

When you went through the hardship of preparing to ship your app and sell it on your own, when you followed along up to this point, I want to sincerely congratulate you. You completed this guided rite of passage. Congratulations for taking this first step towards your own freedom as a creative professional. You are awesome.

You've accomplished quite a lot in the course of this book. Looking back, it might not seem to be that much of a hassle after all. You added the infrastructure to read and write both license and trial information. And you're able to transition the app's state into "registered", "on trial", and "unregistered". That's the framework for incentivizing people on the internet to pay for your free-to-download application.

Of course every app can be cracked. As I mentioned in this book time and again, there are many different ways to bypass copy protection. If you use offline license activation as outlined in this book, software pirates may try to replace the license verification public key inside the app's binary. Or someone figures out where a boolean `appIsUnlocked` check is located your app and replaces that with a stub that always returns `true`. I am no security expert, neither am I a hacker. I wouldn't know how to do that. Code signing and Hardened Runtimes make a lot of injections harder to pull off, I've heard. In any case, I think the arms race against piracy is not worth going "full Michael Kohlhaas" on this.[^kohlhaas] Encourage purchases, but don't end up punishing the wrong people: your customers. Spending time on marketing will probably make you far more money than making your app harder to crack. This is a case of diminishing returns. The opportunity to increase your revenue lies elsewhere: in great feature additions, in new software projects, in excellent customer support and marketing.

[^kohlhaas]: Chances are you never heard of the German novella "Michael Kohlhaas" by Heinrich von Kleist. The 16th-century protagonist is a horse dealer who suffers injustice by an aristocrat and demands compensation for some ruined horses. His demands remain unheard, so he begins to protest. By burning down houses, raising a band of armed peasants, and nearly overthrowing the local government. Wikipedia sums Kohlhaas's journey up a "a fanatical quest for justice", which is why I bring it up here: don't over-reach in your quest for copy protection. It's too easy to lose sight of things and end up accidentally punishing loyal customers, for example by automatically locking the app when it cannot verify it's licensing status with your server -- during a weekend trip to the beach, or a 6-months-long polar expedition. The latter really happens to be cause of customer dissatisfaction.

What you've learned in this book is a big part of selling your software outside the Mac App Store. When you add the license verification and have your FastSpring account set up, you're ready to put your app out there for sale right now.

What's next? Well, once your app gets traction, it becomes easier to promote and sell additional products, if that's your thing. It took me years, but eventually I found that some people get in touch with me and care for my apps over and over again. Slowly, a community is growing. Maybe I can attain "financial freedom" someday. That's the happy story that indie developers tell themselves and others, after all. Every overnight success story actually has a very long history of troubles and hardship. And yes, lots of people quit or fail. Then some don't care about that pipe dream at all and are happy with making a couple dollars extra with a side project. How to build a self-sustained business is way beyond the scope of this book. It doesn't matter what you came here for: the book's goal is to empower you on whichever journey you began.

If you need anything besides, check out the additional resources on my website, and don't hesitate to get in touch if you have questions or feedback!

<https://christiantietze.de/>
